Battle of Neighborhoods (Week 1 & Week 2)
 1. Description of the Problem and Discussion of the Background



The main idea is compare the neighborhoods from Bilbao to explore the city's businesses


2. Initial Data Preparation (Week 1)

1.	Loading Bilbao Open Data about neighborhoods

The Wikipedia page of Bilbao contains a table from the neighborhoods from the city, but in order to get data info, the Bilbao Open Data website is a portal where the city council of Bilbao upload free public data in order to facilitate the development of businesses.







2.	Tidy data and splitting info
3.	Get the coordinates of the neighborhoods













Some coordinates returned by Geopy are wrong and it’s because the name of the districts are different. I found the right ones in Google and replaced it with Pandas.

4.	Check information
 3. Exploratory Data Analysis. (Week 2)

1.	Map of Bilbao’s Neighboorhods

I have used Folium library to plot a map where to display all the Bilbao neighborhoods.



4.Getting Ready to Use FourSquare API

1.	Considering the best Bilbao venues

Using Foursquare API credentials, i have managed to get the top 100 venues  that are in Bilbao within a radius of 3000 meters.













5.	One Hot Encoding

I proceed to create a dataframe with pandas hot encoding fo the venue categories…



… and grouped by Bilbao’s top ten most common Venues

















6.	K-means

To get better information about these locations, i’ve used clustering (K-means) setting as 5 the number of clusters. 









7.	Explore the final clusters

Finally, here’s a map using Folium library that represent these 5 clusters



8.	Results

The results of the exploratory data analysis and clustering are summarized below:

-	Except Cluster 3 (Basurtu) and Cluster 4 (Abando) , the most common venue is bar, and this is not a surprise due that Bilbao is famous for its high concentration of outstanding restaurants, alongside its renowned pintxos bars.

-	The average 2st most common venue are banks and this is also an evidence due that the GDP in the Basque Country is 24,1 % above the spanish average.

-	Cluster 4 (Abando) is the commercial district full of clothing stores







-	The 10th most common venue in Cluster 3 (Basurtu), Cluster 4 (Abando) and Cluster 5 (Uribarri) are Café’s and this is reamarkable due that are clusters almost in the city centre. Fort he next capstone, should be interesting the idea of establish a Café in one of these districts.

9.	Conclusion

Finally to close this project, i need to express how much i’ve learned of how real life data-science projects look like. I really learnt things along all these months of hard work that i’d never have imagined; use Python libraries, Folium for maps, Foursquare API for explore venues…and quite a lot more. I’d for sure continue learning data science because this is not the future, is the present for all of us.


